docs(how-to): use the snapshot import/export feature from the console MTA-2098 (#742)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/instances/how-to/snapshot-import-export-feature.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Using the snapshot import/export feature from the Scaleway console
  description: This page explains how to import/export snapshots of Instances using the Scaleway console
content:
  h1: Using the snapshot import/export feature with the API
  paragraph: This page explains how to import/export snapshots of Instances using the Scaleway console
dates:
  validation: 2022-07-27
  posted: 2021-07-27
---

The snapshot transfer feature allows you to export or import Instance snapshots. Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and stored in a Scaleway Object Storage Bucket.

A snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) stored in a Scaleway Object Storage bucket can be imported into any Availability Zone, as long as it is in the same region as the bucket. This allows you to create Instances in other Availability Zones within the same region. For example, you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.

More information on the QCOW2 file format, and how to use it can be found in the [QEMU documentation](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/images.html#cmdoption-image-formats-arg-qcow2).

<Message type="requirement">

>   - You have a [Scaleway account](/Console/my-account/how-to/create-an-account/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have a [Scaleway account](/console/my-account/how-to/create-an-account/)
```

>   - You have [configured your API keys](/Console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have [configured your API keys](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
```

  - You have an Instance using [Block Storage volumes](/storage/block/how-to/create-a-volume)
  - You have created an [Object Storage bucket](/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket)

</Message>

## Creating a snapshot from your existing Instance

<Message type="note">

> For the sake of this how-to guide, we assume you have an Instance running in the Availability Zone `fr-par-1`, your Object Storage bucket is located in the region `fr-par`, and you want to create the new Instance in the Availability Zone `fr-par-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of this how-to guide, we assume you have an Instance running in the `fr-par-1` Availability Zone, your Object Storage bucket is located in the region `fr-par`, and you want to create the new Instance in the `fr-par-2` Availability Zone.
```

</Message>

> 1. Go to the [Instances section](https://console.stg.frt.internal.scaleway.com/instance/servers) of the Scaleway console and click the **Snapshots** tab. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [Instances section](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers) of the Scaleway console and click the **Snapshots** tab. 
```

---
meta:
  title: Using the snapshot import/export feature from the Scaleway console

>   description: This page explains how to import/export Instances snapshots using the Scaleway console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description: This page explains how to import/export snapshots of Instances using the Scaleway console
```

content:
  h1: Using the snapshot import/export feature with the API

>   paragraph: This page explains how to import/export Instances snapshots using the Scaleway console

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page explains how to import/export snapshots of Instances using the Scaleway console
```

dates:
  validation: 2022-07-27
  posted: 2021-07-27
---

> The snapshot transfer feature allows to export or import Instances snapshots. Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and stored in a Scaleway Object Storage Bucket that holds the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The snapshot transfer feature allows you to export or import Instance snapshots. Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and stored in a Scaleway Object Storage Bucket.
```

> Any snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) imported to a Scaleway Object Storage bucket, can be imported into any Availability Zone in the same region as the bucket. This allows you to create Instances in other availability zones within the same region, for example you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) stored in a Scaleway Object Storage bucket can be imported into any Availability Zone, as long as it is in the same region as the bucket. This allows you to create Instances in other Availability Zones within the same region. For example, you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.
```

> More information on this file format, and how to use it can be found in the [QEMU documentation](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/images.html#cmdoption-image-formats-arg-qcow2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information on the QCOW2 file format, and how to use it can be found in the [QEMU documentation](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/images.html#cmdoption-image-formats-arg-qcow2).
```

<Message type="requirement">

  - You have a [Scaleway account](/Console/my-account/how-to/create-an-account/)
  - You have [configured your API keys](/Console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
  - You have an Instance using [Block Storage volumes](/storage/block/how-to/create-a-volume)
  - You have created an [Object Storage bucket](/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket)

</Message>

> ## Creating a snapshot from your exisitng Instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating a snapshot from your existing Instance
```

<Message type="note">

For the sake of this how-to guide, we assume you have an Instance running in the Availability Zone `fr-par-1`, your Object Storage bucket is located in the region `fr-par`, and you want to create the new Instance in the Availability Zone `fr-par-2`.

</Message>

> 1. Go to the [Instances section](https://console.stg.frt.internal.scaleway.com/instance/servers) of the Scaleway console and click the **Snapshots** tab. 

Reviewer 2: link points to staging console

2. Click **+ Create a new snapshot**. The snapshot creation wizard displays. Enter a name and select the volume to snapshot. Then click **Create a new snapshot**. This launches the snapshot creation and the list of your snapshots displays.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

3. Click <Icon name="more" /> to display the snapshot menu. Click **Copy to bucket**. A pop-up displays. Enter the file name for your exported snapshot copy and select the destination bucket. Then click **Create a copy**.

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-snapshot-copy.webp" alt="" /> 

## Importing the snapshot into the destination AZ

1. Enter the [Object Storage section](https://console.scaleway.com/object-storage/buckets) of the Scaleway console and click on the bucket you have exported the snapshot into. The snapshot copy displays in the list of your objects.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-snapshot-bucket.webp" alt="" />

  <Message type="note">

  Depending on the size of your snapshot, the export to Object Storage may take some time. It is ready once the status indicator changes to green. 

  </Message>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

2. Click <Icon name="more" /> next to the snapshot object, then click **Import as snapshot**. A pop-up displays. Enter the name of the snapshot, select the destination AZ and choose the snapshot type.

  The type can be either **Local SSD**, **Block SSD** or **Unified**. Use **Unified** if you want to be able to create both **Local SSD** and **Block SSD** volumes from this snapshot. Click **Create a copy** to import the snapshot into the destination AZ.

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-snapshot-import.webp" alt="" />

  <Message type="important">

>   Imported snapshots should have a volume size comprised between one gigabyte and one terabyte.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Imported snapshots should have a volume size of between one gigabyte and one terabyte.
```

  </Message>

## Creating Instances from the imported snapshot

1. Go to the [Instances section](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers) of the Scaleway console and click **+Create an Instance**.

> 2. Select the Availability Zone into which you have imported the snapshot, the instance type and the image. Click **My Snapshots** to select the imported snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select the Availability Zone into which you have imported the snapshot and the desired Instance type. Under **Choose an Image**, click **My Snapshots** to select the imported snapshot.
```

  <Lightbox src="scaleway-snapshot-imported.webp" alt="" />

> 3. Optionally add additionally volumes, enter a name and optional tags. Once your configuration is complete, click **Create a new Instance** to launch the Instance creation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Optionally add additional volumes, enter a name and optional tags. Once your configuration is complete, click **Create a new Instance** to launch the Instance creation process.
```

> You can connect to your new Instance using SSH now. It uses the same software configuration as the source Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now connect to your new Instance using SSH. It uses the same software configuration as the source Instance.
```
